TREP: 3<br/>
Title: Project license<br/>
Author: degrown<br/>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/thinkingrock-gtd/tr-discuss-governance/discussions/3<br/>
Status: Final<br/>
Created: 2023-02-17<br/>


## Abstract

This document specifies the license ("base license") that will be used by all project on the ThinkingRock organization.
This license will be applied on all the documentation, artifacts and source code included in these project.
It will be possible to have an exception only when choosing a less restricting license than the base license[^1].


## Motivation

Without a default approved license applied to all the source code, sooner or later licensing problems will arise.
Other than that, we want the ThinkingRock project to remain in the opensource domain. 


## Rationale

All the material that you use, modify, redistribute or manipulate in any other way that are based on source code, documentation or artifacts in a project resident in the ThinkingRock organization, must have to be licensed with the base license. 


## Specification

The base license chosen for all the projects in the ThinkinRock organization is the GPL v3 license.
You can read it [here](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)

Additionally, all source code files must list the copyright preamble as the first lines of the file
(here presented on a "comment syntax" suited for Java language)

```
/*
 * ThinkingRock, a project management tool for Personal Computers. 
 * Copyright (C) 2006 Avente Pty Ltd
 * 
 * This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 * it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 * the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 * (at your option) any later version.
 * 
 * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 * GNU General Public License for more details.
 * 
 * You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 * along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
 */
```

## Backwards Compatibility


## Security Implications


## Rejected Ideas


## Open Issues


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license,
whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[^1]: As an example, this file is licensed on "public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license".
