TREP: 7<br/>
Title: Sample TREP template<br/>
Author: degrown<br/>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/thinkingrock-gtd/tr-discuss-governance/discussions/32<br/>
Status: Draft<br/>
Created: 2023-02-10<br/>


## Abstract

This TREP provides a boilerplate or sample template for creating your own TREPs.
In conjunction with the content guidelines in [TREP 1](/TREP/TREP-0001.md),
this should make it easy for you to conform your own TREPs to the format outlined below.

Note: if you are reading this TREP via the web, do not use the rendered text or the HTML file as your template!
Instead, you should grab the text (markdown) source of this TREP from the TREPs repository.

## Motivation

The TREP process attempts to streamline the discussion and coordination of new features
or other significant changes to the ThinkingRock applications.
Having an approved template makes it easier both for the TREP author
and for the TR core team to process the ideas presented.


## Rationale

If you intend to submit a TREP, you MUST use this template,
in conjunction with the format guidelines below,
to ensure that your TREP submission won’t be rejected because of form.

## Specification

This template is heavily inspired from the template created by the Python language community, PEP 12[^1].

### TREP Header Preamble

Each TREP must begin with header preamble, and the headers must appear in the following order.

```
  TREP: <REQUIRED: trep number><br/>
  Title: <REQUIRED: trep title><br/>
  Author: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: list of authors' usernames and optionally, real names and email addresses><br/>
  Sponsor: <sponsor username and optionally, real name and email address of sponsor><br/>
  Discussions-To: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: URLs of discussion threads><br/>
  Status: <REQUIRED: Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Final | Superseded><br/>
  Requires: <trep numbers this TREP depends on><br/>
  Created: <date created on, in yyyy-MM-dd format>
  Replaces: <trep number><br/>
  Superseded-By: <trep number><br/>
```

The qualifiers "REQUIRED" and "REQUIRED,multiple", or the lack thereof, mean the following:
- Headers marked with "REQUIRED" are mandatory and are described below.
- Headers marked with "REQUIRED,MULTIPLE" are mandatory and may be used once,
  or repeated on multiple lines to capture e.g. multiple authors.
  Repeat the hader on every line and keep the lines together.

Some more information about the individual header fields:

- The `TREP` number header is "9999" for a new TREP.
  It will be assigned by a member of the core team before the pull request is merged.
- The `Title` should be short and concise and help a reader recognize the purpose of the TREP.
- The `Author` header lists the usernames, and optionally the real names and email addresses
  of all the authors/owners of the TREP. 
  The format of the `Author` header values must be:

  `accountname - Random J. User random@example.com`

  where "accountname" is related to the platform that hosts TR activity -
  as of now, it would be the user's GitHub handle.
  If there are multiple authors, each should be listed on a separate line,
  and the header "Author: " has to be repeated on every line.
- The `Sponsor` field records the TR core member(s) sponsoring the TREP. 
  TREPs authored by members of the TR core team do not need a sponsor header.
- The `Discussions-To` header provides the URLs to the discussion threads for the TREP. 
  If there are multiple discussion threads, each should be on a separate line,
  and the header "Discussions-To: " has to be repeated on every line.
- The `Status` should be "Draft" for a new TREP.
- TREPs may have a `Requires` header, indicating TREP numbers of TREPs the current TREP depends on.
  If it depends on multiple TREPs, put each on a separate line and repeat the header "Requires: " on each line.
- The `Created` header records the date the TREP was assigned a number.
  The format should be `yyyy-MM-dd` format, e.g. 2023-03-26.
- TREPs may also have a `Superseded-By` header indicating that this TREP
  has been rendered obsolete by a later document.
  The value is the number of the TREP replacing the current document. 
  The newer TREP must have a `Replaces` header containing the number of the TREP it rendered obsolete.

### How to Use This Template

- Create a copy of this file (the .md file, not the HTML!) in a branch in your fork of this repository
  and perform edits described next. 
  Name the new file TREP-9999.md.
- Ensure that the `TREP` header number matches that of the file name.
  New TREPs start with the dummy TREP number 9999, resulting in a file name TREP-9999.md.
  Note that for actual TREP numbers assigned by the core team, the number in the file name will be
  padded with zeros (e.g. TREP-0012.md), but the number in the header will not (e.g. TREP: 12).
- Change the `Title` header to the title of your TREP.
- Change the `Author` header to include your username, and optionally your name and email address.
  It is ok to obfuscate your email address.
- If none of the authors are in the TR core team, include a `Sponsor` header
  with the name of the core member sponsoring your TREP.
- Add the direct URL of the TREP’s canonical discussion thread
  (on tr-discuss-governance) under the `Discussions-To` header.
  If there exists no discussion thread at the time of submitting the TREP as an official draft,
  you may simply list the venue name in the TREP.
  Once the discussion thread has been created, you can create a pull request to update the TREP,
  replacing the venue name in the `Discussion-To` header with the URL of the discussion thread
  (see [TREP 1](/TREP/TREP-0001.md) for more details).
- Ensure the `Status` header is set to “Draft”.
- If your TREP depends on the acceptance of some other currently in-development TREP,
  add a `Requires` header right after the `Status` header.
  The value should be the TREP number of the TREP(s) your TREP depends on. 
  Do not set the `Requires` header if the dependent TREP already has status "Final".
- Add a `Replaces` header if your TREP obsoletes an earlier TREP.
  The value of this header is the number of the TREP that your new TREP attempts to replace. 
  Only add this header if the older TREP is in “final” form,
  i.e. has either status "Accepted", "Final", or "Rejected".
  You do not formally replace open TREPs by submitting competing ideas.
- Now write your `Abstract`, `Rationale`, and other content for your TREP, 
  replacing all this sample text with your own text. Be sure to adhere to the format guidelines below.
  See “TREP Sections” below for a template of sections to include.
- Try to adhere to the pattern "(at most one) sentence a line"[^2] (also[^3])
  to make it easier to review TREPs in Pull Requests.
- Ensure your `Footnotes` section lists any footnotes and non-inline link targets referenced in the text.
- Create a pull request against the TREPs repository.
- Once the TREP is getting ready to be merged, the TR core team sponsor establishes,
  typically in a comment in the pull request, three items of information:
  the number to be assigned to the current TREP (typically the next free TREP number),
  the new TREP status (in general "Active"), and the discussion period
  (usually from one week to three months).
- If the status assigned by the TR core team is "Active", the author proceeds with the next steps.
- Rename the TREP file as TREP-NNNN.md (replacing NNNN with the actual number with leading zeros).
- Ensure that the `TREP` header number matches that of the file name. 
  Note that the file name should be padded with zeros (eg TREP-0012.md), but the header should not (TREP: 12).
- Change the `Created` header to the date (in format `yyyy-MM-dd`) of when the final TREP number was determined.
- Modify the `Status` header with the value given from the TR core team.
- Now the PR is ready to be merged; at the end of the discussion period, if no particular problems arises, the `Status` header will be set to "Accepted" ("Final" in case of policy or documentation). 

### TREP Sections

Various sections are found to be common across TREPs and are outlined above;
those sections are provided here for convenience.

Below you can find a complete structure of a TREP;
whenever a section isn't used, please mantain the section title, with no content.

```
TREP: <REQUIRED: trep number><br/>
Title: <REQUIRED: trep title><br/>
Author: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: list of authors' usernames and optionally, real names and email addresses><br/>
Sponsor: <sponsor username and optionally, real name and email address of sponsor><br/>
Discussions-To: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: URLs of discussion threads><br/>
Status: <REQUIRED: Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Final | Superseded><br/>
Requires: <trep numbers><br/>
Created: <date created on, in yyyy-MM-dd format><br/>
Replaces: <trep number><br/>
Superseded-By: <trep number><br/>


## Abstract

[A short (~200 word) description of the subject of the TREP.]


## Motivation

[Clearly explain why the current situation is inadequate to address the problem that the TREP solves.]


## Rationale

[Describe why particular decisions were made.]


## Specification

[Describe in detail what this TREP proposes to do.]


## Backwards Compatibility

[Describe potential impact and severity on pre-existing landscape.]


## Security Implications

[How could a malicious user take advantage of this TREP?]


## Rejected Ideas

[Why certain ideas that were brought while discussing this TREP were not ultimately pursued.]


## Open Issues

[Any points that are still being decided/discussed.]


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[A collection of footnotes cited in the TREP, and a place to list non-inline hyperlink targets.]
```


## Backwards Compatibility


## Security Implications


## Rejected Ideas


## Open Issues


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license,
whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[^1]: https://peps.python.org/pep-0012/
[^2]: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line
[^3]: https://sive.rs/1s
