TREP: 9999
Title: Sample TREP template
Author: degrown
Discussions-To: https://github.com/thinkingrock-gtd/tr-discuss-governance/discussions/32
Status: Draft
Created: 


## Abstract

This TREP provides a boilerplate or sample template for creating your own TREPs.
In conjunction with the content guidelines in [TREP 1](/TREP/TREP-0001.md),
this should make it easy for you to conform your own TREPs to the format outlined below.

Note: if you are reading this TREP via the web, do not use the HTML file as your template!
Instead, you should grab the text (markdown) source of this TREP from the TREPs repository.

## Motivation

The TREP process attempts to streamline the discussion and coordination of new features or other significant changes to the ThinkingRock applications.
Having an approved template makes it easier both for the TREP author and for the TR core team to process the ideas presented.


## Rationale

If you intend to submit a TREP, you MUST use this template, in conjunction with the format guidelines below, to ensure that your TREP submission won’t be rejected because of form.

## Specification

This template is heavily inspired from the template created by the Python language community, PEP 12[^1].

### TREP Header Preamble

Each TREP must begin with header preamble, and the headers must appear in the following order.

```
  TREP: <REQUIRED: trep number>
  Title: <REQUIRED: trep title>
  Author: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: list of authors' usernames and optionally, real names and email addresses>
  Sponsor: <sponsor username and optionally, real name and email address of sponsor>
  Discussions-To: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: URLs of discussion threads>
  Status: <REQUIRED: Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Final | Superseded>
  Requires: <trep numbers this TREP depends on>
  Created: <date created on, in yyyy-mm-dd format>
  Replaces: <trep number>
  Superseded-By: <trep number>
```

- Headers marked with “REQUIRED” are mandatory and are described below; all other headers are optional. 
- Headers marked with "REQUIRED,MULTIPLE" are mandatory and could span more than one line; in this case, the header will be repeated on every row. 
The Author header lists the usernames, and optionally the real names and email addresses of all the authors/owners of the TREP. 
The format of the Author header values must be:

accountname - Random J. User random@example.com

where "accountname" is related to the platform that hosts TR activity; as of now, must be the user GitHub handle.
If there are multiple authors, each should be listed on a separate line, and the header "Author:" has to be repeated for every line.

The Sponsor field records the TR core member sponsoring the TREP. 
TREPs authored by members of the TR core team directly do not need a sponsor header.

The Discussions-To header provides the URLs to the discussion threads for the TREP. 
If there are multiple discussion threads, each should be on a separate line, and the header "Discussions-To:" has to be repeated in every line.

The Created header records the date the TREP was assigned a number; should be in yyyy-mm-dd format, e.g. 2023-03-26.

TREPs may have a Requires header, indicating TREP numbers of TREPs the current TREP depends on.

TREPs may also have a Superseded-By header indicating that this TREP has been rendered obsolete
by a later document; the value is the number of the TREP replacing the current document. 
The newer TREP must have a Replaces header containing the number of the TREP it rendered obsolete.

### How to Use This Template

- Create a copy of this file (the .md file, not the HTML!) in a branch in your fork of this repository and perform the following edits. 
Name the new file TREP-9999.md if you don’t yet have a TREP number assignment, or TREP-NNNN.md if you do (replacing NNNN with the actual number with leading zeros).
Those with push permissions are welcome to claim the next available number and push it directly.
- Ensure that the "TREP" header number matches that of the file name. 
Note that the file name should be padded with zeros (eg TREP-0012.md), but the header should not (TREP: 12).
- Change the Title header to the title of your TREP.
- Change the Author header to include your username, and optionally your name and email address; it's okay to obfuscate your email address.
- If none of the authors are in the TR core team, include a Sponsor header with the name of the core member sponsoring your TREP.
- Add the direct URL of the TREP’s canonical discussion thread (on tr-discuss-governance) under the Discussions-To header. 
If the thread will be created after the TREP is submitted as an official draft, it is okay to just list the venue name initially, but remember to update the TREP with the URL as soon as the TREP is successfully merged to the TREPs repository and you create the corresponding discussion thread (see TREP 1 for more details).
- Ensure the Status header is set to “Draft”.
- If your TREP depends on the acceptance of some other currently in-development TREP, add a Requires header right after the Status header; the value should be the TREP number of the TREP(s) your TREP depends on. 
Do not set the Requires header if the dependent TREP already has status Final.
- Change the Created header to today’s date; be sure to follow the format carefully: it must be in yyyy-mm-dd format.
- Add a Replaces header if your TREP obsoletes an earlier TREP; the value of this header is the number of the TREP that your new TREP attempts to replace. 
Only add this header if the older TREP is in “final” form,i.e. has either status Accepted, Final, or Rejected;
you do not formally replace open TREPs by submitting competing ideas.
- Now write your Abstract, Rationale, and other content for your TREP, replacing all this sample text with your own text, and be sure to adhere to the format guidelines below. 
See “TREP Sections” below for a template of sections to include.
- Update your Footnotes section, listing any footnotes and non-inline link targets referenced by the text.
- Create a pull request against the TREPs repository.

### TREP Sections

Various sections are found to be common across TREPs and are outlined above;
those sections are provided here for convenience.

Below you can find a complete structure of a TREP;
whenever a section isn't used, please mantain the section title, with no content.

```
TREP: <REQUIRED: trep number>
Title: <REQUIRED: trep title>
Author: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: list of authors' usernames and optionally, real names and email addresses>
Sponsor: <sponsor username and optionally, real name and email address of sponsor>
Discussions-To: <REQUIRED,MULTIPLE: URLs of discussion threads>
Status: <REQUIRED: Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Final | Superseded>
Requires: <trep numbers>
Created: <date created on, in yyyy-mm-dd format>
Replaces: <trep number>
Superseded-By: <trep number>


## Abstract

[A short (~200 word) description of the subject of the TREP.]


## Motivation

[Clearly explain why the current situation is inadequate to address the problem that the TREP solves.]


## Rationale

[Describe why particular decisions were made.]


## Specification

[Describe in detail what this TREP proposes to do.]


## Backwards Compatibility

[Describe potential impact and severity on pre-existing landscape.]


## Security Implications

[How could a malicious user take advantage of this TREP?]


## Rejected Ideas

[Why certain ideas that were brought while discussing this TREP were not ultimately pursued.]


## Open Issues

[Any points that are still being decided/discussed.]


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license, whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[A collection of footnotes cited in the TREP, and a place to list non-inline hyperlink targets.]
```


## Backwards Compatibility


## Security Implications


## Rejected Ideas


## Open Issues


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license,
whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[^1]: https://peps.python.org/pep-0012/