TREP: 2<br/>
Title: Project Guidelines<br/>
Author: degrown<br/>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/thinkingrock-gtd/tr-discuss-governance/discussions/2<br/>
Status: Final<br/>
Created: 2023-02-15<br/>


## Abstract

This TREP shares the guidelines of the ThinkingRock project.
Please note that these principles apply to all the content hosted on the thinkingrock-gtd GitHub organization,
starting from the source code for the various implementations, continuing to the discussions,
the pull requests, the project boards, etc.  


## Motivation

Until now, there aren't any written principles or guidelines tied to the project.
We'll need to publicly share them; in this way all users and contributors will understand the ThinkingRock approach, and will act accordingly. 


## Rationale

We choose to apply these guidelines to all the content on the ThinkingRock GitHub organization.
We've done that in order to have a constant values alignment between teams, feature requests, implementations, etc.


## Specification

1. ThinkingRock must remain a tool to strictly implement GTD, adhering to the principles layed out by David Allen in his book "Getting things done". 
So, ThinkingRock will not morph into: a todo list, a kanban tool, etc, but will thrive to implement the Allen book[^1]. 

2. ThinkingRock guiding principle is "you own your own data". 
So, ThinkingRock will not morph into a SaaS product: all the data will remain private, and will reside on the user devices by default. 
All the data will be stored in a plain text format, and will be exportable as desired.

3. ThinkingRock must be used either on a desktop or a mobile device. 
Both use cases are relevant, and ThinkingRock must be usable in the major desktop and mobile operating systems.

4. ThinkingRock must enable users to synchronize data between devices, if they choose to opt-in for synchronization.
The direct option must always be present (LAN synchronization or other options), and we'll add integrations to externals file providers (Dropbox, Google, etc)

5. ThinkingRock is a productivity tool - the user must be able to trigger actions using a mouse as well as using the keyboard only (whenever possible).



## Backwards Compatibility


## Security Implications


## Rejected Ideas


## Open Issues


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license,
whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes

[^1]: For example, ThinkingRock is the only tool (until today) that force the user to do the "Process Thought" step __one__ thought at a time, without any jumps or shortcuts.

