TREP: 3<br/>
Title: Project management guidelines<br/>
Author: degrown<br/>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/thinkingrock-gtd/tr-discuss-governance/discussions/23<br/>
Status: Active<br/>
Created: 2023-02-22<br/>


## Abstract

This document specifies the guidelines regarding the usage of project management tools by all projects hosted in the ThinkingRock organization.


## Motivation

Without an explicitly described, shared approach regarding project management, we will drift into an inhomogeneous setup among the different projects.
Because of that, there will be some organizational entropy in regard to roles, visibility and deadlines. 


## Rationale

The approach to project management has to be simple (for easy handling), transparent (respecting the opensource spirit of the ThinkingRock organization) and consistent (among projects and repos).


## Specification

As of now, the ThinkingRock organization is using the GitHub platform, both for code hosting and for organizational purposes.
During the period in which GitHub is used for these areas of activities, these are the project management guidelines for every project in the organization: 

- all the activities will be tracked on the GitHub features called "Projects" (from now on: "project boards", for clarity)
- all the issues will surface on these projects boards
- all the project boards will have public visibility
- we'll set up automation regarding status changes during the issue lifetime
- when using the project board as a Kanban board, we can define a maximum number of items in every column
- people working on an issue (in whatever role) should be (and remain) added as assignees.

### Contribution
Any user can contribute to the code hosted in any project on the ThinkingRock organization, doing that in the standard way.
During the period in which GitHub is used for these areas of activities, these are the contribution guidelines for every project in the organization (we'll use pull requests to accept and review code): 

- an issue in the board may be associated with me or more pull requests
- a pull request should normally not be associated with multiple issues
- pull requests may be associated with no issue (refactoring pull requests, small chore changes)
- pull requests without issue should also be assigned to the project board
- for pull requests, assignees are expected to do the next step; once that step is concluded, the current assignee should be removed and the person responsible for the next step should becone assignee.



## Backwards Compatibility


## Security Implications


## Rejected Ideas


## Open Issues


## Copyright

This document is placed in the public domain or under the CC0-1.0-Universal license,
whichever is more permissive.


## Footnotes
